api-references/transaction/idx-mc.mdx, before:

---
title: "IDX Historical Market Cap Data"
api: "GET /idx-total/"
description: "Return historical data of IDX market cap on a certain interval (**up to 90 days**)"
---

<ResponseExample>
```json 200
[
  {
    "date": "2024-01-02",
    "idx_total_market_cap": 11741696124656268
  },
  {
    "date": "2024-01-03",
    "idx_total_market_cap": 11682715125038308
  }
]
```

```json 429
{ "code": 429, "message": "Rate limit exceeded. Consider upgrading." }
```

</ResponseExample>

### Header

<ParamField header="Authorization" type="string" required>
  Authorization header that should be filled with your Sectors API key.
</ParamField>

### Query Parameters

<ParamField query="start" type="string">
  Start date for which the IDX historical market cap data is to be
  retrieved.
  <AccordionGroup>
    <Accordion title="Format">
      The API endpoint only accepts `start` date in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Earliest date">
      The `start` date must be **no earlier than 90 days before the `end`
      date**. If a date earlier than this is provided, only the most recent 90
      days of data will be retrieved.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Default value">
      When only `end` date is provided, the default value of `start` date is **30 days before the `end` date**.

      When `start` and `end` dates are not provided, the default value of `start` date is **30 days before today**.
    </Accordion>

  </AccordionGroup>
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="end" type="string">
  End date for which the IDX historical market cap data is to be
  retrieved.
  <AccordionGroup>
    <Accordion title="Format">
      The API endpoint only accepts `end` date in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Latest date">
      The `end` date must be **no later than 90 days after the `start` date**.
      If a date later than this is provided, only the most recent 90 days of
      data will be retrieved.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Default value">
      When only `start` date is provided, the default value of `end` date is **30 days after the `start` date**.

      When `start` and `end` dates are not provided, the default value of `end` date is **today**.
    </Accordion>

  </AccordionGroup>
</ParamField>

### Response

<ResponseField name="payload" type="IDXMarketCapData[]" required>
  <Expandable title="properties">
    <ResponseField name="IDXMarketCapData.date" type="string" required>
      The date of the total IDX market capitalization data.
    </ResponseField>

    <ResponseField name="IDXMarketCapData.idx_total_market_cap" type="integer" required>
      The total IDX market capitalization on the given date in IDR.
    </ResponseField>

  </Expandable>
</ResponseField>

Commit message:

add note to idx-total endpoint

api-references/transaction/idx-mc.mdx, after:

---
title: "IDX Historical Market Cap Data"
api: "GET /idx-total/"
description: "Return historical data of IDX market cap on a certain interval (**up to 90 days**)"
---

<ResponseExample>
```json 200
[
  {
    "date": "2024-01-02",
    "idx_total_market_cap": 11741696124656268
  },
  {
    "date": "2024-01-03",
    "idx_total_market_cap": 11682715125038308
  }
]
```

```json 204
// no content. consider adjust start and end query params values
```

```json 429
{ "code": 429, "message": "Rate limit exceeded. Consider upgrading." }
```

</ResponseExample>

### Notes

The earliest data available for this endpoint is from **January 2021 onward**.

### Header

<ParamField header="Authorization" type="string" required>
  Authorization header that should be filled with your Sectors API key.
</ParamField>

### Query Parameters

<ParamField query="start" type="string">
  Start date for which the IDX historical market cap data is to be
  retrieved.
  <AccordionGroup>
    <Accordion title="Format">
      The API endpoint only accepts `start` date in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Earliest date">
      The `start` date must be **no earlier than 90 days before the `end`
      date**. If a date earlier than this is provided, only the most recent 90
      days of data will be retrieved.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Default value">
      When only `end` date is provided, the default value of `start` date is **30 days before the `end` date**.

      When `start` and `end` dates are not provided, the default value of `start` date is **30 days before today**.
    </Accordion>

  </AccordionGroup>
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="end" type="string">
  End date for which the IDX historical market cap data is to be
  retrieved.
  <AccordionGroup>
    <Accordion title="Format">
      The API endpoint only accepts `end` date in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Latest date">
      The `end` date must be **no later than 90 days after the `start` date**.
      If a date later than this is provided, only the most recent 90 days of
      data will be retrieved.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Default value">
      When only `start` date is provided, the default value of `end` date is **30 days after the `start` date**.

      When `start` and `end` dates are not provided, the default value of `end` date is **today**.
    </Accordion>

  </AccordionGroup>
</ParamField>

### Response

<ResponseField name="payload" type="IDXMarketCapData[]" required>
  <Expandable title="properties">
    <ResponseField name="IDXMarketCapData.date" type="string" required>
      The date of the total IDX market capitalization data.
    </ResponseField>

    <ResponseField name="IDXMarketCapData.idx_total_market_cap" type="integer" required>
      The total IDX market capitalization on the given date in IDR.
    </ResponseField>

  </Expandable>
</ResponseField>
